Runtime API restructure (#10062)
withastro/docs: src/content/docs/en/basics/astro-syntax.mdx

:::caution
HTML-style comments will be included in browser DOM, while JS ones will be skipped. To leave TODO messages or other development-only explanations, you may wish to use JavaScript-style comments instead.
:::

## Component utility functions

### `Astro.slots`

`Astro.slots` contains utility functions for modifying an Astro component's slotted children.

#### `Astro.slots.has()`

<p>

**Type:** `(slotName: string) => boolean`
</p>

> You can check whether content for a specific slot name exists with `Astro.slots.has()`. This can be useful when you want to wrap slot contents, but only want to render the wrapper elements when the slot is being used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check whether content for a specific slot name exists with `Astro.slots.has()`. This can be useful when you want to wrap slot contents but only want to render the wrapper elements when the slot is being used.
```

---
const message = Astro.props.message.toUpperCase();
let html = '';
if (Astro.slots.has('default')) {
  html = await Astro.slots.render('default', [message]);
}
---
<Fragment set:html={html} />
```

A callback function passed as `<Shout />`’s child will receive the all-caps `message` parameter:

```astro title="src/pages/index.astro"
---
import Shout from "../components/Shout.astro";
---
<Shout message="slots!">
  {(message) => <div>{message}</div>}
</Shout>

<!-- renders as <div>SLOTS!</div> -->
```

Callback functions can be passed to named slots inside a wrapping HTML element tag with a `slot` attribute. This element is only used to transfer the callback to a named slot and will not be rendered onto the page.

```astro
<Shout message="slots!">
  <fragment slot="message">
    {(message) => <div>{message}</div>}
  </fragment>
</Shout>
```

Use a standard HTML element for the wrapping tag, or any lower case tag (e.g. `<fragment>` instead of `<Fragment />`) that will not be interpreted as a component.  Do not use the HTML `<slot>` element as this will be interpreted as an Astro slot.

### `Astro.self`

> `Astro.self` allows Astro components to be recursively called. This behaviour lets you render an Astro component from within itself by using `<Astro.self>` in the component template. This can be helpful for iterating over large data stores and nested data-structures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Astro.self` allows Astro components to be recursively called. This behavior lets you render an Astro component from within itself by using `<Astro.self>` in the component template. This can help iterate over large data stores and nested data structures.
```
